# Profile-Hidden-Markov-Model
Using Python to solve triple HMM problems, Bioinformatics final course project, Spring 2019 <br/>
- The purpose of this project is to implement the HMM method for constructing profiles from a multiple alignment. <br/>
- The program must first be able to find the structure of the model from an alignment, which in practice will find the number of M states in the slides (match states). Then automatically detect the sequences for DNA or proteins according to the samples (check the characters and make decisions based on them). After this, the model parameters will be learned using the input alignment <br/>
- In the evaluation phase, you will be given two new sequences. For the first sequence you have to get the probability of producing it using the learned model (problem one) and for the second sequence you have to get the most probable alignment (sequence of states) (problem two). <br/>
- The first line received from the input contains a number (n) that indicates the number of sequences in alignment. The second line is also a number (m), which indicates the threshold value for the number of allowed gaps in each column. Columns with more than this number of chats should not be considered for training. Then you have to get multiple alignments in the specified number (n) in separate lines from the input. Finally, the next two lines will be for evaluation. For the first line you have to print a decimal number indicating the probability of the sequence being generated by the model, and for the second line print a string containing the remainder and the character as a gap.<br/>
- Sample files of inputs and outputs are given.

